---
date: 2018-02-01T13:43:02+01:00
linkPost: true
title: "Stimulus: A modest JavaScript framework for the HTML you already have."
link: https://stimulusjs.org/
---

> Stimulus works by continuously monitoring the page, waiting for the magic data-controller attribute to appear. Like the class attribute, you can put more than one value inside it. But instead of applying or removing CSS class names, data-controller values connect and disconnect Stimulus controllers.
> 
> Think of it like this: in the same way that class is a bridge connecting HTML to CSS, data-controller is a bridge from HTML to JavaScript.
>
> On top of this foundation, Stimulus adds the magic data-action attribute, which describes how events on the page should trigger controller methods, and the magic data-target attribute, which gives you a handle for finding elements in the controller’s scope.

Stimulus offers a very simple, elegant and concise way to upgrade your server-rendered site with JavaScript.

Once you see it, you think: "Wow, why didn't anybody come up with this earlier?".

To be fair: a big part of the elegance is to be able to use ES2015 classes. 

And to be even fairer: other people had similar ideas way before Basecamp. [Flight by Twitter](https://flightjs.github.io/) for instance has a similar approach, but IMHO it was stuck in the past already a few years ago and it is not under active development anymore. 

Stimulus is basically the better, modern version of Flight.

Fun fact: it turns out that Google is using almost identical patterns to Stimulus in most of their consumer facing web apps, since years:

Malte Ubl, head honcho of Google AMP on Twitter: 

{{< tweet 958539611621355520 >}}

Malte also said they decided against open sourcing it [years ago](https://twitter.com/cramforce/status/958696304149868545).  

Which I would argue, is not a bad thing. Basecamp found a much nicer name, they made a really beautiful website for it and 
the writing in the Stimulus handbook is really great! I doubt Google would have done as good of a job at that.
