---
date: 2018-08-08T09:50:51+02:00
title: "belly: Improving Git's Command Line User
Experience"
---

My preferred way to use Git is on the command line. I have a set of Git command
sequences that I use all the time and that I know by heart but are a nuisance to
type out every time and a set of command sequences that I need regularly but
have to look up all the time. In order to improve my personal Git user
experience I created [_belly_](https://github.com/kahlil/belly).

belly is a cli-tool that provides a better user experience for some common Git
command sequences:

## Commit & Push
When working on a personal project or on a feature branch within GitHub Flow, I
do this all the time:

```
git commit -m "my commit message"
git push
```

That’s a lot of typing for something I do tens of times a day.

belly combines this into one command:

```
belly c my commit message
```

_Tip: instead of typing `belly` you can just type `b`._

## Git Checkout Branch Or Create And Checkout
I create branches for features, bug fixes and hot fixes all the times. I also
often have to switch between branches. 

belly combines switching and creating-and-switching into one command. So instead
of: 

```
git checkout my-branch
```

or 

```
git checkout -b my-branch
```

I can just do: 

```
belly s my-branch
```

belly will switch to `my-branch` if it exists and it will create-and-switch to
`my-branch` if it doesn't exist yet.

## Set And Delete Tags Locally And On Remote
When you set a version tag you typically want it set in the local and the remote
repository. belly allows you to do that with: 

```
belly t v1.0.0
```

belly can also delete those tags for you: 

```
belly t v1.0.0 -d
```

## Rename A Branch Locally And Remote
This is one of those Git commands I always have to look up. How do I rename a
branch again and why is the command to rename it on the server so different?

Anyway, no need to break out Google for that anymore. Just:

```
belly n my-new-branch-name
```

and it will rename your local branch as well as the corresponding remote branch
for you.

## Easy Squashing
There are a couple ways to squash your feature branch commits. If you want to
squash everything down to master and add a commit message you can use belly's
`q` command: 

```
belly q my commit message
```

## Force-Push The Right Way
When you work with rebasing and squashing in order to keep your Git history
legible you have to force-push in your feature branches regularly. Rather than
using `--force-push` it is recommended to use `--force-push-with-lease` which is
an awkwardly named flag that does not allow you to force-push if the remote
branch has been updated by somebody else. This should be the default. 

With belly you can use: 

```
belly p
```

To force-push-with-lease your current branch state. 

If you think any of these convenience methods would be useful to you, feel free
to [get belly](https://github.com/kahlil/belly). PRs are welcome, if discussed
previously in an issue.

I will be improving belly over time and add more features if I think it would be
useful.



