---
date: 2019-01-18T10:03:48.620Z
title: "blog-cli: A CLI for Blogging with Static Site Generators"
---

My blog is built with Hugo. Every blog I ever had was built with a static site
generator or a file based CMS. I love static site generators, they make content
management simple, they are secure and it's fun to build websites with them.

For me, they have one problem: creating a blog post is annoying. Typically the
file for the post needs to have the date in it and the slug and then you need to
put in the Front Matter for the post. It is all just very tedious and annoying.

That's why I made blog-cli. It creates the Markdown file for me at the right
location with the correct file name, inserts the basic Front Matter and opens
the file in my favorite Markdown editor. This means I go from post idea to
writing in 1 second.

This should work for most static site generators. At least for simple setups.

Here is how it works.

First you have to install blog-cli. You need Node.js and npm for that.

```
npm install --global @kahlil/blog-cli
```

Then you need to tell blog-cli where you want it to put your posts.

```
blog --path ~/my-blog/posts
```

Then you need to tell blog-cli about your favorite Markdown Editor.

```
blog --editor 'ia writer'
```

Now you are all set and you can create a new post and open it in your editor by
simple specifying a slug.

```
blog my-new-cool-post
```

This will create a new file with the filename: 2019-01-17-my-new-cool-post.md in
the directory you specified, ~/my-blog/posts in this case.

The Front Matter that is inserted looks something like this:

```
---
draft: true
date: 2019-01-18T10:03:48.620Z
title: ""
---
```

---

Now, if you are part of the cool kids club then you probably keep your files in
a Git repository, commit new blog posts and push them to Github at which point
it gets deployed to Netlify.

It turns out that blog-cli can help you with that as well!

```
blog --publish
```

Will automatically commit all changes with the message 'new post' and execute a
git push.

Nifty, right?! If you are static-site-generator-blogging as well I hope blog-cli
can help you.

If you have any ideas to improve it please send an issue or a PR
[on GitHub](https://github.com/kahlil/blog-cli).
